# Project 1
# Oluwole OBISANYA
# Topic: Construction

## My Contribution to the project:
- [X] I used the data of the XML file converted by Leon to create the DTD, XSD and XSLT files and making sure they were valid.
- [X] I worked on the HTML page, which dynamically loads the data from the xml file into the html webpage. [HTML](/displayConstruction.html)

## Reports on How I got my Tasks Done:

Creating the DTD and XSD Files: (To create the DTD file for the Construction Data project, here are few steps that I followed.)

- [X] Analyzing the XML structure: I analyzed the XML file generated by Leon to identify its structure and the data it contains.
- [X] Defining elements and attributes: Based on the analysis above, I defined the elements and attributes for the DTD and XSD files. Each element was given a name, data type, and any constraints or rules that need to be applied.
- [X] Creating the DTD and XSD files: I created the DTD and XSD file according to the defined structure. The DTD and XSD file defines the elements and attributes of the XML file, their data types, and any constraints or rules that need to be applied.
- [X] Validating the DTD and XSD files: The DTD and XSD files was validated to ensure that it conforms to the Document Type Definition standard and that it correctly defines the elements and attributes of the XML file. [SeeValidationResultHere](DTD_Validation.png)


Creating the XSLT File: (To create the XSLT file for the Construction Data project, here are few steps that I followed.)

- [X] Identifying the desired output: I actually analyze the data of the XML file to identify the desired output of what my HTML table will display.
The information identified and displayed are as follows: start date, end date, address, contractors, workers, equipment, and supplies. The XSLT file uses templates to extract those information from the XML file and present it in a formatted way.

- [X] Creating the XSLT file Structure: The XSLT file contains a set of rules that define how the XML data should be transformed into HTML.
The XSLT file starts with an XML declaration specifying the version and encoding. The XSLT file has a single template matching the root element of the XML file. The template starts with an HTML tag, followed by the head and body tags. The head tag includes the title of the HTML page and a style block defining the appearance of the HTML table. 

- [X] Testing the XSLT file: The XSLT file was tested to ensure that it correctly transforms the XML data into HTML according to the defined rules.
[SeeOutputHere](XSLT_Visualization.png)

## Creating the HTML & JS

Creating the Javascript code that retrieves the data from an XML file and populates the HTML Page, here are the few steps I followed to deliver the expected output:

- [X] I Created a new XMLHttpRequest object and opened a connection to the "construction.xml" file.
- [X] Set the responseType to "document" to parse the response as an XML document.
- [X] Set the onload event handler to parse the XML response and display it in the table.
- [X] Retrieved the buildings from the XML document using the getElementsByTagName method.
- [X] Looped through each building and created a new row in the table for it.
- [X] Created cells for each piece of data in the building element using the createElement method.
- [X] Retrieved the data from the XML file using the getElementsByTagName method and set the cell content using the textContent property.
- [X] Used the innerHTML property to create a list of workers, equipment, and supplies for each building and separated each item with a line break.
- [X] Added the row to the table using the appendChild method.
- [X] Added [CSS](main.css) to style my html file to create a simple and clean style for the HTML table, with alternating row colors and a green header row to distinguish the table header from the rest of the content.

Final Output: [SeeHTMLOutputHere](displayConstruction.png)


## Learning Curve and Challenges

- [X] Understanding the XML File and its structure: It's really challenging trying to understand the structure of the data in the XML file and how to access it using JavaScript. Putting into consideration the number of lines of the XML Data.

- [X] Debugging Code: While working with the XSD, XSLT and HTML & JavaScript, I encountered errors in my code, situations whereby my page returns blank output, or scenes where I tried to debug the console log errors, among others is time-consuming and frustrating. 

## Conclusion

In conclusion, the challenges I encountered during this project played a vital role in setting me up to achieve the goal of this project.
Additionally, I took some time out to research more even beyond the scope of class activity which I can aplly to future project in the area of HTML, CSS and JAVSRIPT.
